[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: How many of you
have heard of requestAnimationFrame?
Okay, so maybe about a third of you again.
requestAnimationFrame is
an interesting API because it was
designed to fix a problem and
that's where the name came from.
But I really think this is an example
where the name is actually
a really terrible name and
it's a really poorly named API.
So, first of all,
it's not just about animation,
even though the API says
the word animation in it.
Many people think, the only thing I
ever need to worry about is animation.
I point you to a blog post
that I just recently did,
if you search on my blog it was a month or
two ago.
I talked about doing requestAnimationFrame
for just plain old normal visual updates.
So, requestAnimationFrame is
basically an API that says,
I've got a function that I am going,
inside of that function,
I'm going to make some
visual updates to the page.
I'm going to move a box around or whatever
it's not about animation I'm just going
to show something, or hide something,
or make something bigger, or
drop in a banner,
a pop a dialog, whatever.
Any time we're going to make some sort
of visual update usually CSS based.
You can say to the browser here's the
function that's going to do that update.
And I would like you, browser, to call
this function at the most optimal time for
a visual update to occur.
Because if you think about it, if you
write your code in such a way where you
are declaring I want you to
update this code right now.
The browser oftentimes has
to assume that you really
do want to update right at that moment.
But we know that the way the browser
works, it's not actually physically
updating the screen every single
time you write a JavaScript call.
So we get out of sync between
when we're making updates and
when the page is actually refreshing.
So we have not only our screens
that do refresh's like 60 hertz,
you know it's doing 60 times a second or
whatever.
But we also have the browser doing visual
updates or repaints to the screen.
And the browser is really good
at keeping itself in sync with
the monitor that it's running on.
So if you're running on a 60 hertz monitor
,your browser is going to be running
an update.
Generally speaking it's going to be trying
to update about 60 times a second unless
something is slowing it down.
If you use the same browser, same system
on a monitor with a 100 megahertz,
100 times a second.
In general those newest most modern
browsers are capable of updating it faster
speeds to keep themselves in
sync with with your display.
But if you are updating your code,
if you're updating, if you're making
changes to your CSS in different intervals
than what the browsers updating.
Then now you have three
different potential updates that
could be out of sync.
And so any time you've ever done anything
with set timeout based animations or
anytime you just made a plain old visual
update at any time, you've been doing so
slightly sub-optimally.
And requestAnimationFrame is
a nice API because it says,
I don't know when that's going to happen.
It could happen one millisecond from now.
It could happen five
milliseconds from now.
It could happen an ancient
16.7 milliseconds from now,
I don't know when the next
updates gonna be.
So I don't wanna take time to
worry about running my update now.
I want the browser to automatically call
my function for the visual update right
before it does its next repaint, that
way I can be in sync with that update.
If it slows to 30 times a second,
my code slows to 30.
If it speeds up 100, my code speeds
up to 100, you get the point.
So requestAnimationFrame's a really nice
API, not only just for animations but
for any sort of updates
that you're going to do.
You're going to pop in a dialog or
whatever,
you might want to consider queuing those
things up with requestAnimationFrame.
But I said the API name is really
kind of poorly name because it
implies that we are requesting some
sort of animation frame update.
And my anecdotal evidence for
this is at one point about a year ago
I logged onto the MDN website,
and I looked up the page for
requestAnimationFrame, I wanted
to know something else about it.
But I noticed I just glanced,
I noticed that the very first sentence of
that documentation page said something to
the effect of requests the browser
to schedule a new animation frame.
And I read that and
I thought well it doesn't sound right.
I feel like I'm pretty familiar with how
requestAnimationFrame actually works and
that doesn't sound even remotely like
what I think it should be saying.
And so I did some research I
asked some people at Mozilla and
it turns out somebody was making
that documentation for that page and
was completely mistaken on what
requestAnimationFrame actually does.
And I think again, anecdotally,
part of the problem was
that the name implied something
about requesting animation frames.
Well, that's not really what's happening,
the browser's gonna continually
repaint all the time.
And all you're really doing is
queuing up a visual update to occur at
the next paint.
So what should they have called it?
They should have called it visual
update or queue visual update or
you know perform visual data or
something but
requestAnimationFrame is
just a bizarre thing.
The point is, you use
requestAnimationFrame any time you're
making any sort of visual update that
you wanna make sure you're doing so
as performantly as possible.
So I created a facade for the
animationFrame API as you would expect,
it's called animationFrame as
you see there on line one.
Now I fixed some of the conceptual
problems by naming my methods queue
because that's what you're doing.
You're queuing up a function to
be handled with the next repaint.
So you call aFrame.queue
to queue up a function.
And there's this other subtle thing that
sometimes you find yourself needing to do.
Because there is sometimes where you
need to make one visual update and
then you need to do another visual update.
And you need those things to happen
in different animation frames,
in other words, in different repaints.
Because if you do them in the same
repaint, like for instance turning
something red and then turning blue,
guess what the CSS engine likely will do.
It will never show the red and
it will combine it and
only show the blue cuz you'll never
have a chance to see the red.
If you wanted it to
flicker from red to blue,
you need those things to
happen at different times.
Another example is if you
wanna show something and
then use a transition for
it to pop-up and then move.
If you do those in the same animation
frame, if you make it pop-up and
you apply the transition, so
that it will animate itself and move.
If you do that,
what you will get, is at some
point when the animation has completed it
will just pop visible in the end location.
It won't pop and
move it will just pop-up in the old
location, which is not what you want.
So this is a common enough task that I was
running into that I realized well, you
kind of need to request not only the next
animation frame but the one after that.
The next, next animation frame.
And so I add that method directly on
to the facade called queue after, so
it just essentially does
two requestAnimationFrame's
nested in each other for you.
So line 11 you can do queueAfter and
queue and so forth.
You can cancel these things just like
you can cancel any other intervals.
But it should make it pretty simple for
you to deal with doing visual updates and
that's the goal.